Hello everyone and welcome to this python tutorial.
In the previous video we finally finished with our A.I. trader class and now that we have everything
prepared for our algorithm it's time to create a few helper functions that are going to help us in the
learning process.
The goal of this video is to define and complete our data set loader function.
But before we jump into that part of the video we'll discuss these two helper functions they have just
defined for you the first one is the sigmoid as you already know the sigmoid is an activation function
used mostly at the end of the network.
When we have binary classification ultimately it's kills a number to the range from 0 to 1 this function
here will help us to scale our prices.
We are doing this so we can compare and gather the real differences between each day one day the stock
can be two hundred but the next one.
It can jump to 1000.
The difference between them is the same as forty five to 200.
The difference as in the jump is the same but the prices weren't to handle this.
We need to use sigmoid function to have the same number two represents this difference.
The next helper function is stock price format and there's the formatting function which will help us
to print out the prices of the stock we bought or sold.
It says if the number is negative.
So we lost some money for example it will add a minus in front of it and we are using this string formatting
to limit the printed number to only 2 decimal points.
We are doing the same thing.
If the number is positive although we don't add the minus in front of it the core of this video is to
complete this data loader function.
We only have to add one line of code.
We are going to explain these free lines of code right here but for the more straightforward implementation
and focusing on the meat of this function we wont bother writing these lines before we complete this
data loader a function.
Let's visualize the data set and see how to load 1.
Let's define a data set as a variable and let's call our library called data reader that we installed
in the first video of this section this function has a data either object that takes a stock price information
as you can see it can reach to Google finances Yahoo Finance or any other provider of stock market information.
In our case we are going to use Yahoo scenes.
It provides the most relevant information for us the stock name represents the name of the company on
the stock exchange market let's use Apple for this example to get Apple stock information right.
A P L as a string.
The next argument that we have to specify is data source or which provider we should ask to provide
that information for us.
In this case we are saying data source is equal to Yahoo and that's all what we have to provide after
we finish with testing of this line.
We are going to copy and pasted right here in the function but before we do that let's check what it
does.
It will reach through Yahoo.
Get Apple stock information and save that to our data set variable.
Let us visualize it as you can see it uses Panda's data frame object to store that information.
If you haven't worked with stocks before it has a date scenes for each day we have some price of the
stock.
High Low is the highest and lowest price for the day open is when the market is opened physically.
For example in New York what was the price for that company then we have close and close is a price
similar to open one.
But the price when the market is closed volume represents how many stocks are there to be sold and the
last column is not important for us right now.
We don't have to use or want to use all of this information if we want to predict stock market prices.
We are going to use only the close or open column let's use close for our example and this is the column
that we are trying to predict and also from these data we are going to build state for our network this
index here is the date in here we need to specify the starting date and the end date and if we specify
data said Dot index it is going to take all data from the data set.
But if we specify just the first one it is going to get our starting date and that's pretty much it.
We can convert this date to a string format and split it on space so we don't use this time or related
information by just the date.
So this is the same thing that is happening right here.
We are taking the first and the last date from our data set putting them in the string format and getting
the information like what is the starting and the ending date of the data set we can delete this cell
right now as we already said let us copy this line right here and based it to our function with this
line added the function is ready to be used since the data set variable is the same as this one.
There is only one more thing that we have to do instead of specifying Apple as a string.
Let's use argument of the function instead with that we are done with the function execute the cell
and we are ready to proceed and that's it for this video.
You learned how to use this data either a library to reach to some markets such as Yahoo Finance and
ask for the data information about a certain company in the next video we will take this information
and create state from it.
If you have any questions or comments so far please post them in the comments section.
Otherwise I seeing the next tutorial.